Welcome back everyone.
In this lecture we're going to discuss the general idea behind voter sentiment analysis with Python
and NL T.K..
We've already explored tech's classification and using it to predict sentiment labels on pre labeled
movie reviews.
That means someone has already read the review for us and manually labeled it either positive or negative.
But what happens if we don't already have those labels are there pre constructed methods of attempting
to discern sentiments sentiment being whether you feel positive about the text or negative about the
text or neutral on raw unlabeled text.
Is there a way we can take that raw text data and pass it through some sort of pre-built algorithm that
will directly declare the sentiment for us without even needing any sort of pre labeled training mechanisms
well.
Luckily one of the solutions is called Vader which stands for valence aware dictionary for sentiment
reasoning.
So the sentiment that E is capitalized there.
That's where they get the E for Vader and Vader is a model used for tech's sentiment analysis that is
sensitive to both polarity that is whether something is positive or negative an intensity that is the
strength of the emotion.
And we'll talk about strength in a little bit now.
Luckily for us it is available in the analytics package and can be applied directly to unlabeled text
data.
You do have to download it but it's a simple download call from within and L2 K..
So keep that in mind if you have a firewall you may need to disable it in order to download and we cover
the download process in the very next lecture now primarily Vader sentiment analysis relies on a dictionary
which maps lexical features to emotion intensities called sentiment scores the sentiment score of a
text can then be attained by summing up the intensity of each word in the text.
So essentially every single word has some sort of positive or negative value attached to it.
And what we do is we just take all the words instead of a text document and then convert them into positive
or negative values and then we sum that all up and that will be our document sentiment score.
So for example you can think of words like love like enjoy and happy.
Those all convey a positive sentiment.
And remember we also talked about the strength of the emotion and Vader is actually intelligent enough
to understand basic context of these words such as did not love as a negative sentiment.
So don't be too concerned about things like having the word love be completely positive because Vader
will also take into account the context of the words because if there's a negative word such as not
preceding a positive word then you can understand that that whole sentiment is probably negative.
So not love or it did not like did not enjoy Vader will understand that.
And it's also going to understand things like capitalization and punctuation.
So if you write just a lowercase word love that doesn't convey a positive emotion as strongly as love
in all caps with a bunch of exclamation marks.
So Vader's also smart enough to take that into account now sentiment on raw text is always going to
be challenging because there's a variety of possible factors things like positive and negative sentiment
in the same text data.
So for example if you're reading a movie review often movie reviews will praise actors capabilities.
However maybe they judge the overall screenplay or the script of the movie itself as very poor and as
we know if you've seen a movie with great actors in it that isn't a good movie often has to do with
the screenplay or the poor script or just the poor storyline.
So a movie review could have a positive things about the actors but that negative things to say about
the overall movie itself and if there's more positive things about the actors than vader is going to
say that the overall movie review could be positive when in fact the true analysis of the movie movie
review when read it by human would be that the overall movie was negative but the actors were positive
in it.
Now another thing that's very difficult to detect is sarcasm.
This is pretty much impossible for Vader to the text because you end up using positive words in a negative
way sarcastically.
So keep these two ideas in mind.
This sense of analysis from Vader is definitely not going to be foolproof so we're going to do now is
explore using Vader sentiment analysis and ulti Kate and Python.
The key thing to keep in mind here is that we're going to be able to apply Vader onto any raw text data
that we want.
Okay let's get started.
I'll see you in the next lecture.